Refactor pipeline aggregations (#9598)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/pipeline/index.md

`min_bucket`, `max_bucket`, `sum_bucket`, and `avg_bucket` are common sibling aggregations.

### Parent aggregations

A _parent_ aggregation takes the output of an outer aggregation and produces new buckets or new aggregations at the same level as the existing buckets.

The specified metric for a parent aggregation must be a numeric value.

We strongly recommend setting `min_doc_count` to `0` (the default for `histogram` aggregations) for parent aggregations. If `min_doc_count` is greater than `0`, then the aggregation omits buckets, which might lead to incorrect results.
{: .important}

`derivatives` and `cumulative_sum` are common parent aggregations.

## Buckets path

A pipeline aggregation uses the `buckets_path` parameter to access the results of other aggregations.
The `buckets_path` parameter has the following syntax:

```
buckets_path = <AGG_NAME>[<AGG_SEPARATOR>,<AGG_NAME>]*[<METRIC_SEPARATOR>, <METRIC>];
```

| Element | Literal character | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | 
| `AGG_NAME` |  | The name of the aggregation. |
| `AGG_SEPARATOR` | `>` |  The character used to separate aggregation names. |

> | `METRIC_SEPARATOR`| `.` |  The character used to separate final aggregation from its metrics. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `METRIC_SEPARATOR`| `.` |  The character used to separate the final aggregation from its metrics. |
```

| `METRIC` |  | The name of the metric. Required for multi-value metric aggregations. |

For example, `my_sum.sum` selects the `sum` metric of an aggregation called `my_sum`. `popular_tags>my_sum.sum` nests `my_sum.sum` into the `popular_tags` aggregation.

> # Data gaps

Reviewer: We should move this down because buckets path example should be under buckets path.

> # Data gaps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data gaps
```

> # Data gaps
> 
> Real-world data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:
> 
> - Missing values in documents
> - Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations
> - Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).
> 
> You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property: either skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.
> 
> The `gap_policy` parameter is valid with all pipeline aggregations.
> 
> | Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
> | :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
> | `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip` and `insert_zeros`. Default is `skip`. |
> | `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

            "field": "phpmemory"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "sum_copies": {
      "sum_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "number_of_bytes>sum_total_memory"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Note that the `buckets_path` contains the names of the component aggregations. Paths are directed, meaning that they cascade one way, downward from parents to children. 

### Buckets path example response

The pipeline aggregation returns the total memory summed from all the buckets:

```json
{
  ...
  "aggregations": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "buckets": [
        {
          "key": 0,
          "doc_count": 13372,
          "sum_total_memory": {
            "value": 91266400
          }
        },
        {
          "key": 10000,
          "doc_count": 702,
          "sum_total_memory": {
            "value": 0
          }
        }
      ]
    },
    "sum_copies": {
      "value": 91266400
    }
  }
}
```

### Count paths

> You can direct the `buckets_path` to use a count rather than a value as its input. To do so, use the special `_count` buckets path variable.

Author: ```suggestion
You can direct the `buckets_path` to use a count rather than a value as its input. To do so, use the `_count` buckets path variable.
```

> The following example computes basic stats on a histogram of the number of bytes from the OpenSearch Dashboards logs sample data. It creates a histogram of values in the `bytes` field, then computes the stats on the counts in the histogram buckets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example computes basic stats on a histogram of the number of bytes from the OpenSearch Dashboards logs sample data. It creates a histogram of values in the `bytes` field and then computes the stats on the counts in the histogram buckets.
```

```json
GET opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "histogram": {
        "field": "bytes",
        "interval": 10000
      }
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "stats_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "number_of_bytes>_count"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The results show stats on the *document counts* of the buckets:

Author: ```suggestion
The results show stats about the *document counts* of the buckets:
```

```json
{
...
  "aggregations": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "buckets": [
        {
          "key": 0,
          "doc_count": 13372
        },
        {
          "key": 10000,
          "doc_count": 702
        }
      ]
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "count": 2,
      "min": 702,
      "max": 13372,
      "avg": 7037,
      "sum": 14074
    }
  }
}
```

# Data gaps

Real-world data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:

> - Missing values in documents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Missing values in documents.
```

> - Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations.
```

> - Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Missing data needed to calculate a bucket value (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).
```

> You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property: either skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify a policy to handle missing data using the `gap_policy` property: either skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.
```

> The `gap_policy` parameter is valid with all pipeline aggregations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `gap_policy` parameter is valid for all pipeline aggregations.
```

      "sum": 14074
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

# Data gaps

Real-world data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:

- Missing values in documents
- Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations
- Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).

You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property: either skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.

The `gap_policy` parameter is valid with all pipeline aggregations.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip` and `insert_zeros`. Default is `skip`. |
| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |

```

---
layout: default
title: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/pipeline-agg/
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline-agg/

>   - /query-dsl/aggregations/index/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: default
title: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/pipeline-agg/
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline-agg/
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/index/
  - /aggregations/pipeline/
  - /aggregations/pipeline-agg/
---

# Pipeline aggregations

> Pipeline aggregations chain together aggregations by piping the result of one aggregation to the input of another. They compute complex statistical and mathematical measures like derivatives, moving averages, and cumulative sums. Some pipeline aggregations duplicate the functionality of metric and bucket aggregations, but in many cases are more intuitive to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline aggregations chain together multiple aggregations by using the output of one aggregation as the input for another. They compute complex statistical and mathematical measures like derivatives, moving averages, and cumulative sums. Some pipeline aggregations duplicate the functionality of metric and bucket aggregations, but in many cases are more intuitive to use.
```

> Pipeline aggregations are run after all other sibling aggregations. This has performance implications. For example, using the `bucket_selector` pipeline aggregation to narrow a list of buckets does not reduce computations performed on omitted buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline aggregations are executed after all other sibling aggregations. This has performance implications. For example, using the `bucket_selector` pipeline aggregation to narrow a list of buckets does not reduce the number of computations performed on omitted buckets.
```

{: .note}

> Pipeline aggregations cannot be sub-aggregated, but can be chained with other pipeline aggregations. For example, you calculate a second derivative by chaining two consecutive `derivative` aggregations. Keep in mind that pipeline aggregations append to existing output. So for example computing a second derivative by chaining `derivative` aggregations outputs both the first and second derivatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline aggregations cannot be sub-aggregated, but can be chained with other pipeline aggregations. For example, you calculate a second derivative by chaining two consecutive `derivative` aggregations. Keep in mind that pipeline aggregations append to existing output. For example, computing a second derivative by chaining `derivative` aggregations outputs both the first and second derivatives.
```

> ## Types of pipeline aggregations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pipeline aggregation types
```

> Pipeline aggregations are of two types, sibling and parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline aggregations are of two types, [sibling](#sibling-aggregations) and [parent](#parent-aggregations).
```

### Sibling aggregations

> A sibling pipeline aggregation takes the output of a nested aggregation and produces new buckets or new aggregations at the same level as the nested buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _sibling_ pipeline aggregation takes the output of a nested aggregation and produces new buckets or new aggregations at the same level as the nested buckets.
```

> A sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation (have multiple grouped values for a certain field) and the metric must be a numeric value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation (have multiple grouped values for a certain field), and the metric must be a numeric value.
```

`min_bucket`, `max_bucket`, `sum_bucket`, and `avg_bucket` are common sibling aggregations.

### Parent aggregations

> A parent aggregation takes the output of an outer aggregation and produces new buckets or new aggregations at the same level as the existing buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _parent_ aggregation takes the output of an outer aggregation and produces new buckets or new aggregations at the same level as the existing buckets.
```

The specified metric for a parent aggregation must be a numeric value.

> We strongly recommend setting `min_doc_count` to `0` (the default for `histogram` aggregations) for parent aggregations. If `min_doc_count` is greater than `0` the aggregation omits buckets, which might lead to incorrect results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend setting `min_doc_count` to `0` (the default for `histogram` aggregations) for parent aggregations. If `min_doc_count` is greater than `0`, then the aggregation omits buckets, which might lead to incorrect results.
```

{: .important}

`derivatives` and `cumulative_sum` are common parent aggregations.

> ## Buckets path property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Buckets path
```

A pipeline aggregation uses the `buckets_path` property to access the results of other aggregations.

> The `buckets_path` property has the following syntax:

Reviewer: I think we should refer to `buckets_path` as a parameter, rather than property.

> A pipeline aggregation uses the `buckets_path` property to access the results of other aggregations.
> The `buckets_path` property has the following syntax:

Author: ```suggestion
A pipeline aggregation uses the `buckets_path` parameter to access the results of other aggregations.
The `buckets_path` parameter has the following syntax:
```

```
buckets_path = <AGG_NAME>[<AGG_SEPARATOR>,<AGG_NAME>]*[<METRIC_SEPARATOR>, <METRIC>];
```

> where:
> 
> - `AGG_NAME` is the name of the aggregation.
> - `AGG_SEPARATOR` separates aggregation names. It's represented as `>`.
> - `METRIC_SEPARATOR` separates the final aggregation from its metrics. It's represented as `.`.
> - `METRIC` is the name of the metric. It is required in the case of multi-value metric aggregations.

Author: where the expression elements are shown in the following table.

```suggestion
| Element | Literal character | Description |
| :-- || :-- || :-- | 
| `AGG_NAME` |  | The name of the aggregation. |
| `AGG_SEPARATOR` | `>` |  The character used to separate aggregation names. |
| `METRIC_SEPARATOR`| `.` |  The character used to separate final aggregation from its metrics. |
| `METRIC` |  | The name of the metric. Required for multi-value metric aggregations. |
```

Is this better?

Reviewer: Yes but remove the duplicate pipes on line 56.

For example, `my_sum.sum` selects the `sum` metric of an aggregation called `my_sum`. `popular_tags>my_sum.sum` nests `my_sum.sum` into the `popular_tags` aggregation.

> The following parameters are optional:

Reviewer: Should these be formatted as a table?

> The following parameters are optional:

Author: ```suggestion
# Data gaps

Real-world data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:

- Missing values in documents
- Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations
- Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).

You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property: either skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.

The `gap_policy` parameter is valid with all pipeline aggregations.
```

> - `gap_policy`: Real-world data can contain gaps or null values. You can specify the policy to deal with such missing data with the `gap_policy` property. You can either set the `gap_policy` property to `skip` to skip the missing data and continue from the next available value, or `insert_zeros` to replace the missing values with zero and continue running.

Reviewer: I think we can link to the data gaps section here instead of repeating the info.

Author: Replaced this section with Data gaps and deleted the Data gaps section. What do you think?

Reviewer: Looks good! We can then link to this section from other aggregation pages that use this info.

> - `gap_policy`: Real-world data can contain gaps or null values. You can specify the policy to deal with such missing data with the `gap_policy` property. You can either set the `gap_policy` property to `skip` to skip the missing data and continue from the next available value, or `insert_zeros` to replace the missing values with zero and continue running.
> - `format`: You can provide a format string for the output value; for example, `yyyy-MM-dd` for a date value.

Author: ```suggestion
| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip` and `insert_zeros`. Default is `skip`. |
| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |
```

---
layout: default
title: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/pipeline-agg/
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline-agg/

>   - /query-dsl/aggregations/index/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/index/
  - /aggregations/pipeline/
```

Reviewer: Line 10 is so you can omit "/index", and line 11 is so the old file redirects to the new one.

```json
GET opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "histogram": {
        "field": "bytes",
        "interval": 10000
      }
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "stats_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "number_of_bytes>_count"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The results show stats on the *document counts* of the buckets:

```json
{
...
  "aggregations": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "buckets": [
        {
          "key": 0,
          "doc_count": 13372
        },
        {
          "key": 10000,
          "doc_count": 702
        }
      ]
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "count": 2,
      "min": 702,
      "max": 13372,
      "avg": 7037,
      "sum": 14074
    }
  }
}
```

## Data gaps

Data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:

- Missing values in documents
- Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations
- Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).

You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property. 

> You can set the `gap_policy` property to do one of two things:
> 
> - Skip the missing data
> - Replace the missing data with zeros

Author: ```suggestion
You can set the `gap_policy` property to skip the missing data or replace the missing data with zeros.
```

      "histogram": {
        "field": "bytes",
        "interval": 10000
      }
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "stats_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "number_of_bytes>_count"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The results show stats on the *document counts* of the buckets:

```json
{
...
  "aggregations": {
    "number_of_bytes": {
      "buckets": [
        {
          "key": 0,
          "doc_count": 13372
        },
        {
          "key": 10000,
          "doc_count": 702
        }
      ]
    },
    "count_stats": {
      "count": 2,
      "min": 702,
      "max": 13372,
      "avg": 7037,
      "sum": 14074
    }
  }
}
```

## Data gaps

Data can be missing from nested aggregations for a number of reasons, including:

- Missing values in documents
- Empty buckets anywhere in the chain of aggregations
- Data needed to calculate a bucket value is missing (for example, rolling functions such as `derivative` require one or more previous values to start).

You can specify a policy to deal with missing data using the `gap_policy` property. 

You can set the `gap_policy` property to do one of three things:

- Skip the missing data

> - Use non-numerical data if it is non-null and not `NaN`, otherwise skip the data

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Replace the missing data with zeros

The `gap_policy` parameter is valid with all pipeline aggregations. The valid values for the parameter are:

| Value | Action |
| -- | -- |
| `skip` | Ignore the bucket containing the missing data. |

> |`keep_values` | Skip buckets with `null` and `NaN` values; otherwise use the provided value. |

Reviewer 3: While `skip` and `insert_zeros` are pretty clear (either the bucket is dropped or it's inserted with a value of `0`), I don't understand how `keep_values` works. Maybe a short example showing all three would help?

Author: @msfroh I'm not sure either, since there wasn't an example in the existing page. The key question is, What other values besides null and NaN would cause the system to omit a document? A non-numerical format? But then how would it aggregate that with numerical data? Might have to look in the code to find out.

Author: ```suggestion
```
